High in this video I want to start looking at Python modules and what is a module now a module is nothing
more than just an object of a certain data type.
So modules are instances of the module type just like a class is an instance of the class type and instances
of a class or instances of that class functions are instances of the function class.
So for example let's say I say def funk and I go in here and I say Akos 10 and return a something like
that correct.
Lets say I have that then I can look at what func is.
OK.
Func is a function called funk in main.
So that type of phunk is function.
Its in my main module because this is what I'm running inside right now the name of this module that
I'm running in is my main module and that's my Jupiter notebook.
So now where is this thing being located because not really.
Right if I call func and I you know I referenced phunk here with func we have a call here.
I can do that.
Obviously Python is looking at this.
Now this isn't the function itself.
This is just a label.
This is a symbol that represents that function.
What it needs to do at the end of the day is call whatever object is stored at that memory address write
my func has a memory address.
So it's going to call the object stored at that location.
Where does it know where to find it.
Well remember we've discussed this before but that's the namespace the namespace basically holds references
to all the symbols that we have.
And what object they point to in memory.
And we can very easily look at the namespace we can look at that dictionary that contains this by looking
at Global's.
So Global's tells us all the global stuff in our namespace that basically gives us a listing of our
global namespace.
So for example the function phunk will find down here.
There it is right.
Func is a function and its name is func and it's located in the main module.
And this is the memory right.
Address the the reference to the object in memory.
So I can also recover instead of using the non-self calling func this way I could do Global's which
is a dictionary.
I can go and get phunk right.
So now I've got my function.
I can say equals that for example and I can look at f is funk and that's true because those are both
the same things.
And now I can call f.
Right.
So I could also have just called it directly this way but basically name spaces are dictionaries and
dictionaries that contain the symbols.
And then also contain what that symbol means.
And there's a lot of stuff that got added in by Python as it loaded by Jupiter as it loaded so bunch
of stuff that's happening behind the scenes.
I also want to point out very quickly that let's say I'm going to redefine our funk and we can also
look at the local namespace inside the function.
Now we can look at the local namespace in the main module but if we do that to locals we can do that
as well in here we can call locals and that's going to give us a dictionary and it looks identical to
the one and is it the same though.
It's not the same dictionary.
And the answer is yes because when we're in the global scope which we are here when I'm typing this
code then the local scope and the global scope happens to coincide it's the same thing.
But if we're inside a function then it's not the same thing.
So let me go ahead and say the 12 equals 10 and the last 10.
And before I do that let me add the second.
Let me say equals 100.
OK.
So now if I look at Global's
then we'll see that I should have a in here somewhere.
See if I can find.
There we go a and a is a 100 k now in the phunk.
I'm going to do that and I'm going to print the locals out.
I'm not going to return anything.
Now I'm going to call func and these are the locals.
OK.
We only had two things A and B.
So there we go A and B but again local's is just a dictionary just like Global's.
That's the namespace.
All right.
So all that was just to start looking at modules.
So let me go ahead and delete all this stuff.
We don't need it.
And let's clear the slate let's import the math module now.
Oh Cape's Python did something.
And we'll take a look at exactly what happens when we import a module.
But for now we just want to kind of look at what a module is.
Well first of all if I type just math by itself Python tells me just like I had my phunk just now that
this is a module that's a type it's a module it's called math and it's a builtin module so this is one.
This one is a little special case a little different.
Let's go ahead and say simple fractions.
OK.
And now let's look at what fractions is all fractions is a module.
Fractions and it came from this file over here.
I'll talk about that in a little while.
But there's a little bit of a difference between the built in and the standard library stented library
very often is written in Python.
So you get p y files sometimes it's written in C but the built ins are written in C and they're built
into the Python language that that we get the C Python.
OK.
So now let's take a look at our global namespace again because what is math.
Well math is really not and fractions now by the way it's no different than a variable.
Right.
In fact we could say junk because math right.
And now I could say junk that square root of two.
Right.
Because junk is math.
It's the same thing right.
These two labels these two symbols are pointing to the same object but how does Python know what that
object is and where it's located in memory.
Well that comes from the Global's that's stored in the namespace.
Right.
So the namespace Global's is now going to contain we're going to see math right.
Math was imported fractions was imported.
So we have all of that there.
OK and we'll see it down here somewhere as well.
His math right.
And his fractions.
So in fact I could say Global's.
And I'm going to look for the math key in Global's And you'll notice it returns something and return
it returned the model.
So now I could say you know more math equals Global's math.
Now I have a handle to that object to knock and say MMOG math.
Square root of 2.
And I get that again.
That was the same way.
So when I do this math that's something when I use math it looks in the global namespace it looks in
the dictionary and it's just a plain text.
We can take a look at it globose the type of that is a dict just an ordinary Python dictionary.
So when we import a module it gets loaded into here but it's just an object.
So we can actually look at.
And we saw when we typed math that we got that we can also look at the type if you want but it's just
going to tell us that it's a module.
OK.
So it's a module we can look at the type of fractions.
That's a module too.
We can also look at the idea of math for example.
Right.
It's got a specific memory address and I want you to remember this memory address.
Well I'll scroll back up and take a look at it because I want to show you what happens if my simple
math again.
Let's say I do import math again a second time well what's the idea of math now.
It's the same so it can actually reload the module and we'll get to that when we look at imports because
there's something else that's happening.
But there's a global cache that contains all the modules that get loaded.
So if you're in some other module in your python program and you import math you'll get the same reference.
So think of those as Singleton objects essentially.
So when we import a module it's not getting loaded into queue it's getting loaded into memory and a
reference is set into our global namespace.
It's not it's not like the module is being loaded here.
What happens is that it gets reference it gets created instantiated in memory and then a reference is
added to our global dictionary.
But it's also added somewhere else and it's added into the system cache and it's we can look at that
system cache by importing the CIS module and we can look at the.
Let's take a look at sists docked modules.
It's big.
It's got a lot of stuff in it.
There's a lot of modules that that got loaded and a lot of them have to do with Python which is you
know the Jupitus stuff.
So I'm not going to look at it directly this way because it's going to be just too difficult to find
what we want.
But let me show you that the type of sist modules is just a dictionary.
This is the dictionary that contains our module and the module symbol and where it's located in memory.
So for example we could say system modules.
It's just a dictionary.
Let's look for the math right.
It should be in there because we imported math and it is and if we look at the I.D. of that model
we'll see that it's the same ID as this one over here.
And as this one over here.
So what actually happened the first time I imported math it got went ahead.
It actually loaded the module put into memory and then it created a reference to it in six modules.
And then because I was inside the main module when I was importing math it added that same symbol with
the same reference inside my global namespace.
So it was sitting there.
Now if I now have a night program has multiple modules if I import math again from another module.
The first thing Python's going to do is going to go to the cist modules look for it.
It finds its going to say great.
I don't need to reload it.
It's already been loaded.
So let's take a look and let's start doing some introspection and let's start with the math module Let's
start there so we can look at the name of the math module.
It's called math.
We can also look at the dict.
So a couple of ways of doing this but I'll use the dumb to dict.
So this is a dictionary that basically contains all the standard dictionary contains all the attributes
that are in the math module in this math object.
Right.
Just an object like any other object.
OK.
So for example we'll find the square root is in here somewhere.
There we go square root and square root.
Is this function over here.
So if I wanted to get my hands onto the square root function I could say F equals math Dundon dict as
Q R T.
Now got a function.
What is that function f.
It's the math square root function Crites and I can call from too and I get that.
So again everything is just basically doing lookups in the name space in that table and finding the
object that it corresponds to based on the symbol.
Now there's some other interesting things in here as well.
For example we have this package which we'll talk about later when we're looking at creating packages
will also have this module spec which tells us that the name of the package is math.
It's kind of think of it as metor data regarding the module.
And it says the origin is built in.
It's a built in.
So map behaves a little differently.
It's you know it's written in C..
So let's go ahead and let's import a module that's actually written in Python.
That's all part of the standard library but written in Python.
So let's go ahead and say import fractions.
OK.
So fractions another module.
So now if I look at cist modules and I go and look for fractions in there I have it.
And you'll notice that it says module fractions.
That's the name.
So this is the type to module names fractions and it doesn't say builtin here it says from this.
What is that.
Well that's where the fraction of p y code exists.
This is where it's located.
Right.
And so in fact if we look at fractions dict
and let me do it this way to me the dearth of fractions
so here are the keys.
And you'll notice that we have this file thing here.
OK.
We also have a name.
We have a spec as well.
So let's take a look at what that is.
Now let me bring in now we just saw that.
Let me bring that in depth.
Now we got the full stuff.
So there's a bunch of stuff going on.
All right.
But what I'm really interested in are those few kind of metal tags Mehta.
Mehta attributes.
So here is the name.
OK so while no that's not the name of that one sorry.
This is the name of some of the stuff that it's using like user wanting Unicode error.
Let's go ahead and look for our own stuff.
OK.
There we go.
So here we have the name.
So the name is Fraction's this is the module.
So this this attribute is at the module level.
These other attributes were nested inside the file.
The file indicates where it came from that's what we saw printed out.
This is where Python went and looked because when we have a distribution of Python here I'm using a
virtual environment that's called deep dive and it's an anaconda environment.
So you can see where it's located is located.
My drive uses that Anaconda three ends because that's the virtual environment the dive.
And then it goes and looks in the lib directory and the Directory has all that stuff living in there.
In fact let's take a look at the let's go.
And so now I'm in that directory.
D uses F papped Anaconda 3 right.
That's what we saw over here.
Right.
So let's take a look now.
And we're in there I want to go to the environments and I don't remember the thing it was called Deep
Dive kick.
So his deep dive.
He got a bunch of stuff in there.
But in particular I want to look at the lives because that's what it said over here that it's inside
the lib.
Right.
The lib directory.
So let's go look at that.
So let's call it to live.
And now let's take a look and you can see all the standard library files that are in there and sometimes
packages.
But for example now we're going to find math.
Math isn't going to be in here.
But Fraction's is going to be in there.
And there it is.
There's fractions right here.
OK.
If we were to you know impose something like our collections collections is there but a lot collection
is a directory that's actually a package.
It's not just a simple module.
A little bit more going on.
But if you all would import calendar it would come from there.
OK.
Let's take a look.
We import calendars.
It comes from Lesch.
Again it tells us it comes from that location.
So so far what do we know about modules.
Well they get loaded from file and that's not always and I'll get to that in a bit.
They're a regular data type what data type are they.
They're a model data type.
They have a name space and they basically are a container of global variables.
Right.
We saw that that dhanda dict write that that contains all that stuff but the the module itself also
has a bunch of stuff right that that Dundon dick right here.
And if we were in that module we could look at the name space we could look at Global's for example
and would get that result back.
It's also an execution environment we haven't seen that yet.
And here because I can't really execute a module from here I'm inside the main module we'll switch over
to PI Chan later on.
And take a look at that.
But it's basically has these kind of properties.
Right.
It gets loaded from somewhere.
Usually it's from file but it doesn't have to.
It has a name space.
It's a container of global variables basically.
And it has an execution environment you can run code inside.
What are we doing here in this main notebook.
We're running code rodef I say print 10.
It just ran it I'm inside the module I'm inside the main module.
So where is that data.
Where does that data type live.
Well we can import types and there is a type in there called module pipe.
And let's take a look at instance
of Fraction's module type.
So this is the name of the type module type.
And other than say pipes top model type.
OK.
So we get.
True.
So a fraction is a module type same thing with is instance I can type it lets say of mouth
that's true as well.
So now we can basically create our own model we can create an instance of module type.
Right.
What's stopping us from doing that.
We can say M mod equals module type.
Now module type take some parameters for the constructor.
The first parameter is the name of the module.
So I'm going to call this you know test for example and then I can also pass in an optional docstring.
So I'm going to say you know this is a test module
and I'm going to use the types module.
OK so now we have a module.
If I look at is an instance modeled module type fight remember you know what I'm going to do.
So I'm tired of missing that every time from types.
Important module type kick start.
It says go ahead and do math like this I will mess up again.
And of course it is an instance of the module type.
That's what we just created.
So OK so now we have that but it really isn't going to do much.
We can look at the dictionary of maade and it really doesn't have a whole lot.
It has a docstring.
This is a test module.
It has a name and it's not a package and there's no specification for it.
It didn't get load from file so it doesn't have a file property either.
It's very bare it doesn't do anything.
So how are we going to get this thing functionality.
Well which is going to added in we're going to set attributes to model.
So let's say we say maade dot pi equals 3.1 for k.
So now if I look at Marda dhanda dict you'll see pi is in there.
How about a function.
How about I give it a function I'm going to say mod dot.
Equals.
And I'm just going to use a lambda so I can define it on the same thing.
And it's just going to return cloak K and it's mod mode.
OK so now maade has a halo function.
Now I can say from maade import payload.
Because this is not you know it hasn't been really set up as a module.
Not yet anyway.
It is a module type but you know Python doesn't know anything about it.
So if I want to do that if I want to basically mimic that all I would have to do is to say hello equals
maade dot Hello.
OK so now Helo's in my global namespace of my module.
Right so I could check that Kellog in Global's that will be true.
OK I can also check that Mada is in Global's.
And of course it's true that symbol exists in my global scope.
Hello now exists.
Now I can call this hello.
Right.
And I get that I can also do other weird things I could say import named.
Sorry.
From collections import named topple.
And now I could say maade dock point equals
named top hole.
It's called point and let's say two field X and Y.
So now I could say more that I could say we want equal more Montauk Point 0 0 and P to be called mod
MAHDAVI point 1 common one k and so P1 is a point to the point.
And if we look now at maade dict.
Actually I'm just going to do endeavor on it then you'll see that we have halos in there.
Pi is in there in point this class right is in there as well.
This name top will is in there as well.
And I could add a function to that as well that you know calculates the distance between two points
and things like that.
So that's a module.
We created a modular module is just basically another type of object.
It has its name space it can execute code and it can have attributes.
So you know there's little bit of magic going on.
When we said attributes are using get attributes and and said attribute but you know this is we're kind
of insulated from that part on those that for us when we use the dot notation but we can also do it
saying get attributes Marder point for example.
Right.
And this is going to be the let's call it P T.
Now I could say P-T 20 comma 20 right.
That's what's happening when I say maade docked point.
It's basically getting the attribute point from mud.
How does it get the attribute point.
What is it doing.
It's no different than saying P-T equals Hamadi Dunder Dick point.
OK.
It's doing exactly the same thing.
So now I can say PTV 20 comet 20 and I get a point again.
So again I'm just emphasizing that the name spaces of those dictionaries are essentially right.
And there's different ways of getting at stuff.
But that's that's what the modulars.
All right.
So this is a good breaking point and we're going to take a look at a bunch of other stuff.
And you know to talk about modules and packages and imports.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.